MTM-60994 Tenant context API change announcement (#2467)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/cumulocity-undefined-notifications-tenant-context-operations-wildcard-announcement.md

---
date: 2024-10-01
title: Advanced notice of changes to Notifications 2.0 tenant context subscriptions with no API filter
change_type:
  - value: change-3BQrQ6adS
    label: API change
product_area: Platform services
component:
  - value: component-JlFdtOPva
    label: REST API
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
---

> Subscriptions to realtime updates from Notifications 2.0 may specify the Cumulocity IoT APIs to subscribe to, for example `alarms` or `measurements`.

Reviewer: Nitpick: do we want to use the word realtime here, as our other notification solution is called realtime?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, maybe simply say "Notifications 2.0 Subscriptions may specify ..."

> Subscriptions in the tenant context may use a wildcard value - that is, `*` - for the API selector, meaning that the subscription should include all available APIs.

Reviewer 2: issue: The apis=['*'] value can be use in managedobject contexts too. This reads as though it only available to tenant contexts

Author: Good catch, not sure how I missed that. I will change it.

> A missing API selector in a tenant context subscription request is equivalent to using the wildcard value.

Reviewer 3: **_nitpick:_**
```suggestion
In the tenant context, subscriptions can use a wildcard value - `*` - for the API selector, indicating that the subscription should include all available APIs. If the API selector is omitted in a tenant context subscription request, it is treated as equivalent to using the wildcard value.
```

> Currently, a tenant context subscription using the wildcard API selector will deliver updates from the `alarms`, `events`, and `managedobjects` APIs.

Reviewer 3: **_question:_** Should we be explicit that these are MO creates only?

Reviewer 2: I don't think the mo creates distinction is important here (as I didn't and still don't think it was/is in the ADR)

Author: Yes, discussed with Rohit and decided it might be better to not list the APIs here - just say "see the documentation", to avoid this confusion.

In future, such subscriptions will also deliver updates from the `operations` API.

> For example, after this change is enabled, an application that `POST`s this request to the `/notification2/subscriptions` endpoint:

Reviewer 2: issue: this sounds as though it only affects Subscriptions created after this change - we should maybe be clear it affects all, including any existing ones.

```
{
  "context": "tenant",
  "subscription": "testSubscription",
  "subscriptionFilter": {
    "apis": [
      "*"
    ]
  }
}
```

should expect to receive `operations` updates in addition to any updates it was previously receiving.

> Applications that create tenant context subscriptions using the wildcard API selector should ensure that they are able to process `operations` updates before this change is enabled.

Reviewer 3: **_nitpick:_**:
```suggestion
Applications using the wildcard API selector in tenant context subscriptions should be prepared to receive `operations` updates in addition to the updates they were previously receiving. To avoid disruptions, ensure that your application can handle operations updates before this change is enabled.
```

If the API selector is omitted from a subscription request, it is treated as equivalent to using the wildcard value.

Currently, a tenant context subscription using the wildcard API selector will deliver updates from a subset of the available APIs.
See the Notifications 2.0 subscription [REST API documentation](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#operation/postNotificationSubscriptionResource) for details of the current tenant context subscription behaviour.

In future, such subscriptions will also deliver updates from the `operations` API.
This applies to subscriptions that were created before the change is enabled, as well as new subscriptions.
For example, after this change is enabled, an application that `POST`s the following request to the `/notification2/subscriptions` endpoint may receive `operations` updates, regardless of when the subscription was created:

```
{
  "context": "tenant",
  "subscription": "testSubscription",
  "subscriptionFilter": {
    "apis": [
      "*"
    ]
  }
}
```

Applications using the wildcard API selector in tenant context subscriptions should be prepared to receive `operations` updates in addition to the updates they were previously receiving.

> To avoid disruption, application developers should ensure that their applications can handle `operations` updates _before_ this change is enabled.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To avoid disruption, application developers should either:

- ensure that their applications can handle `operations` updates, or

- include an API selector

before this change is enabled.

```

---
date: 2024-10-01
title: Advanced notice of changes to Notifications 2.0 tenant context subscriptions with no API filter
change_type:
  - value: change-3BQrQ6adS
    label: API change
product_area: Platform services
component:
  - value: component-JlFdtOPva
    label: REST API
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
---

> Notifications 2.0 subscriptions may specify the Cumulocity IoT APIs to subscribe to, for example `alarms` or `measurements`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Notifications 2.0 subscriptions may specify the {{< product-c8y-iot >}}  APIs to subscribe to, for example `alarms` or `measurements`.
```

See the Notifications 2.0 subscription [REST API documentation](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#operation/postNotificationSubscriptionResource) for details of the current tenant context subscription behaviour.

In future, such subscriptions will also deliver updates from the `operations` API.
This applies to subscriptions that were created before the change is enabled, as well as new subscriptions.
For example, after this change is enabled, an application that `POST`s the following request to the `/notification2/subscriptions` endpoint may receive `operations` updates, regardless of when the subscription was created:

```
{
  "context": "tenant",
  "subscription": "testSubscription",
  "subscriptionFilter": {
    "apis": [
      "*"
    ]
  }
}
```

Applications using the wildcard API selector in tenant context subscriptions should be prepared to receive `operations` updates in addition to the updates they were previously receiving.
To avoid disruption, application developers should either:

- ensure that their applications can handle `operations` updates, or

- include an API selector

before this change is enabled.

> The change will be enabled in the Cumulocity IoT CD release line no earlier than 15 January, 2025.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The change will be enabled in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}}  CD release line no earlier than January 15, 2025.
```
